I'm sorry.
Music
At SRI, we are experimenting with a mobile
robot. We call him Shaky. Our goal is to
give Shakey some of the abilities
associated with intelligence, abilities
like planning and learning. Even though
the tasks we give Shakey seem quite
simple, the programs needed to plan and
coordinate his activities are complex. The
main purpose of our research is to learn
how to design these programs so that
robots can be employed in a variety of
tasks ranging from space exploration to
industrial automation. Shakey operates in
this experimental environmental
environment of rooms, doorways, and simple
objects.
The top lens belongs to Shakey's
television camera. He uses it to obtain
visual information about his own location
or about other objects. These walls were
made high enough so that Shakey cannot see
over them with his television camera.
camera. Shakey uses these feelers or cat
whiskers to tell him if he has bumped into
anything. He can push objects with this
push bar.
The programs controlling Shakey reside in
a large PDP-10 computer and occupy over
300,000 36-bit words of storage. Shakey
communicates with the computer over a
radio link.
We use a teletype to give instructions to
the computer programs that control Shakey.
Shakey reports back to us using the
teletype and the cathode ray tube display.
An executive program handles communication
between the experimenter and and the robot
system.
Shakey's movements are directly controlled
by a set of low-level action programs.
These programs convert orders such as roll
2.1 feet into appropriate commands to
circuits on the vehicle that control
Shakey's motors.
Two other examples of low-level actions
are pan fan, and tilt.
The low level actions provide some of the
building blocks for more complicated and
powerful programs called intermediate
level actions. One such action is go-to.
Go-to plans and executes a route to a
named goal location, marked with a cross
here, circumventing obstacles if need be.
The Go-To program plans a route by first
computing whether any obstacles lie on a
direct path. If so, points near the
obstacle are set up as sub-goals. After
Shakey computes a route, he traverses it
to the goal.
Another intermediate level action pushes a
named object, box one in this example, to
a location specified by a pair of
coordinates.
A feature of the intermediate level
actions is their ability to recover from
unforeseen accidents. Our gremlin,
Charlie, symbolizes as an agent of change
unknown to Shakey. Shakey's sensors tell
him that the box has slipped off the push
bar, but his cat whiskers tell him where
the box is so he can get behind it and
resume pushing.
level actions is
designed to try again if the first attempt
fails.
We use the push program in another
intermediate level action that blocks a
doorway with a box. We also have an
intermediate level action to take Shakey
through a doorway into an adjacent room.
Ordinarily, Shakey keeps track of his own
position by counting wheel revolutions.
This dead reckoning navigation is quite
accurate, but errors do accumulate. If an
intermediate level action needs more
precise location information, it calls on
a special picture taking routine called
landmark for orientation. Here we see
Shakey taking a picture of the nearest
reliable landmark, in this case a corner
of the room.
Shakey's view is shown on the TV monitor.
His vision programs enhance the edges of
of the picture to produce a line
representation on the cathode ray tube
display. If Shakey's dead reckoned
estimate of his position were correct, the
outline of the corner would have looked
like this. Shakey uses the new picture
information to improve his estimate of his
location. The intermediate level actions
communicate directly with the executive
program and indirectly with the vehicle.
To summarize, intermediate level actions
are pre-programmed to work on frequently
encountered tasks. They can recover from
several types of errors and accidents and
they incorporate powerful subroutines for
analyzing pictures and for navigating.
Of course, for intermediate level actions
to work, they need information about
Shakey's experimental environmental
environment. Shakey models his environment
with a list of assertions giving
information about the locations of walls,
doorways, other objects, and himself. From
his model, Shakey knows that the floor
plan of his world looks like this. The
small hand points to Shakey. His model may
be incomplete. complete. For example, it
happens that the contents of this room are
unknown.
The model may also be inaccurate. It shows
that the upper right-hand corner of room
two is empty, even though a box is in fact
present.
The executive and the action programs
communicate with the model so that it can
be updated either by a user or by Shakey
himself.
We want Shakey to be able to combine
intermediate level actions to perform new
tasks not covered by any single action.
For this purpose, Shakey uses a planning
program called STRIPS. STRIPS employs such
artificial intelligence techniques as
means-ends analysis and automatic theorem
improving. A special action model tells
strips about the preconditions and the
predicted effects of each intermediate
level action.
For example, the action that takes Shakey
through a door requires that he be near
the door. Its effect is that he will end
up in the next room. The action model uses
the language of the predicate calculus
rather than English as shown here.
STRIPS uses the action model to predict
what the state of the environment would be
if various actions were taken.
First, STRIPS finds those actions that are
most relevant to the task. The
preconditions of these relevant actions
are set up as subgoals. These subgoals, in
turn, lead to others. Finally, all of the
needed actions are assembled into a plan
to accomplish the goal.
This chart shows the major components of
the complete robot system.
Now we'll watch Shakey solve some
problems.
In our first task for Shakey, we want him
to use this box to block this door,
starting
from this position. The robot executive is
capable of understanding a wide variety of
English statements, questions, and
commands. We can type Shakey's first task
in English, which is translated into to
predicate calculus, the language used by
Strips. Strips analyzes the task and
produces a plan to solve it.
Let's diagram the plan found by Strips.
First, Shakey plans to use the action go
to D5 that will take him to the doorway.
Then he will use the actions go through D5
and go to D3.
Finally, he plans to use go through D3 and
block D4 with box 1. After computing the
plan, Shakey begins to execute it. He
moves to the first doorway by using the
action, go to D5.
He looks through the doorway because he is
uncertain about the contents of the next
room. room. His view of the floor along
his path shows no obstructions, so he
moves into the next room by using the
action, go through D5.
But just after this move, Charlie the
Gremlin blocks the next doorway with a
box. Shakey doesn't know it yet, but the
box is right in his planned path.
Because the contents of this room are
unknown, he checks the next leg of his
journey with a television camera.
The box is in Shakey's field of view. This
is how it appears on the TV monitor.
Shaky's vision programs analyze the
picture and tell him that his path to the
doorway is obstructed. He takes another TV
picture of the obstructing object. Here we
monitor on the cathode ray tube display
the results of vision programs that
enhance edges, identify the main regions
of the scene and determine the location of
the box on the floor.
Once located, the object that blocks his
path can be entered in Shakey's model and
given a name, Box 2.
Now Shakey realizes that he cannot carry
out the original version of his plan. His
first recourse is to see if some other
version of the old plan might work.
Shakey remembers the form of a plan and
can substitute other symbols into the same
form to produce another version of the
plan. In this case, Shakey was fortunate.
The new version will solve his problem.
Otherwise, he would have had to use strips
to make a brand new plan, possibly one
that used the unblock action to clear the
doorway. Here though, strips was not
needed, so Shakey begins to execute the
new version of the old plan. First he
turns and goes to another door.
He goes through the door
and then goes over to the next door.
Finally, he goes through the next doorway
where he can use the intermediate level
action block D4 with box one.
The block program automatically plans a
route to a pushing place behind box one.
These lights come on whenever Shakey
intends to push an object or back away
from one.
Shaky knows he has to maneuver box one
around the wedge.
Finally, box one is pushed in front of the
doorway.
When the task is completed, Shakey doesn't
forget the plan he has generated.
The form of this plan is remembered and
stored away as a new action routine called
Macrop 1. Macrop 1 is a learned macro
action that takes Shakey from one room
through an intermediate room and into a
third where he blocks a doorway. When
Macrop 1 is added to Shakey's action
repertoire, a description of it is added
to his model of actions so that strips can
use it in planning more complex tasks.
Let's see how Shakey makes use of this
newly learned action to unblock the door
that was blocked by Charlie.
Strips is given the task in English and
begins to analyze the available actions to
determine which will help to solve the
problem.
Strips decides that it must apply the
action unblock. To do so it has the sub
problem of getting to the room containing
box two. Strips solves this sub problem by
using the first four components of Macrop
1.
The new plan is rapidly found to be a
simple modification of the old one and
Shakey is ready to execute it. This
ability to learn enables Shakey to plan
his second task in one-third the time that
it took to plan his first plan.
Let's watch Shakey execute the plan. First
he uses the action go to D1.
Shaky navigates around the wedge to get to
the doorway.
He goes through the first door and decides
to take a TV picture to update his own
location.
The new location information is used to
correct his position in the model.
Confident of his position, Shakey turns to
go to the next door.
He goes through the door into the room
containing box two.
Once in this room, he can use the action
unblock D3. He calculates an accessible
pushing place and heads toward it to push
the box away.
Our experiments with Shakey have helped us
learn more about how a computer can be
programmed to control a robot. Continuing
research at major centers like SRI will
someday allow intelligent robots to leave
the laboratory and enter the service of
man.
Thank you.